CS246—Deliverables, Group Project (Winter 2014)

B. Lushman

Due Date 1: Friday, March 28, 5pm

Due Date 2: Friday, April 4, 11:59pm

Your project will be graded based on correctness and completeness (60%),
documentation (20%),

and design (20%). Grading will proceed in two phases, outlined below:

Correctness and Completeness

The correctness and completeness component of your project will be
assessed via a live demo in

front of a TA. You will need to sign up for a 20-minute demo slot with a
TA; both group members

should show up, and you should plan a demo that takes the TA on a tour
through all of the required

features of the project. Be prepared to explain to the TA how you
implemented the various parts

of your project. At any time, the TA may ask you to demonstrate a
particular element of your

project (e.g., whether some boundary case is handled properly). If there
is a component of your

project that is not working, advise the TA, rather than pretend that it
does.

After you have demonstrated the core requirements, you may demonstrate
any additional features of the project that you may have implemented,
for extra credit. The TA will assess the worth

of your additional features after your demo is over.

Documentation and Design

Your documentation and design will be assessed via written documents
that you will submit to

Marmoset as pdfs.

On Due Date 1

Submit a plan of attack. This should include a UML that describes how
you anticipate your system

to be structured (even if you complete the project by due date 1, the
UML you submit must be

one that you built prior to starting the project).

Your UML should show the classes that make up your project and the
relationships between

them. You only need to show public methods (i.e, you can leave out
private fields and protected/private methods, unless you need to show
them to illustrate a point, e.g., a design pattern).

You will not graded on the degree to which you adhere to this model, but
you will be asked to

account for any differences that arise between this model and your final
submission. File: uml.pdf.

In addition your plan of attack must include a breakdown of the project,
indicating what you

plan to do first, what will come next, and so on. Include estimated
completion dates, and which

partner will be responsible for which parts of the project. You should
try to stick to your plan, but

you will not be graded by the degree to which you stick to it. Your
initial plan should be realistic,

and you will be expected to explain why you had to deviate from your
plan (if you did).

1

Finally, your initial plan of attack must include answers to all
questions listed within the project

specification itself. You should answer in terms of how you would
anticipate solving these problems

in your project, even though you are not strictly required to do so. If
your answers turn out to be

inconsistent with your final design, you will have an opportunity to
submit revised answers on Due

Date 2.

Your plan should be no more than 5 pages long.

On Due Date 2

On Due Date 2, you must submit all of your code to Marmoset, together
with a Makefile, such

that issuing the command make builds your project. Your executable
should be called quadris for

Quadris, cc3k for ChamberCrawler 3000, or chess for Chess.

In addition, you must submit a final design document. It must outline
the final, actual design

of your project, and how it differed from your design on Due Date 1 (if
it did). You should include

an updated UML, reflecting the actual structure of your project. Do this
even if it is the same as

the original UML.

Your document should provide an overview of all aspects of your project,
including how, at a

high level, they were implemented. If you made use of design patterns,
clearly indicate where.

Your system should employ good object-oriented design techniques, as
presented in class.

Include all answers to questions posed within the project specification,
and indicate how they

differ from the answers you gave on Due Date 1 (if they did).

You should not expect the TA’s to read through all of your code.
Therefore, your design document should stand alone – the TA should not
need to have your code open in order to understand

your document. However, if you wish to highlight certain aspects of your
design, you should indicate

clearly where they can be found in your code, if the TA wants to have a
look.

Finally, answer the following questions:

​1. What lessons did this project teach you about developing software in
teams? If you worked

alone, what lessons did you learn about writing large programs?

​2. What would you have done differently if you had the chance to start
over?
